Skip To Content
How can we help?Help me decide on...Show me the research on...How can we help?

Wirecutter
Log in
Subscribe
Home & Garden
Kitchen
Health & Leisure
Tech
Baby & Kid
Style
Gifts
Shopping
Deals
We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more›

HOMEFURNITURE
The Best Sofas You Can Buy Online
By Katie Okamoto, Gregory Han and Abigail StoneUpdated May 9, 2023
Save
A person sitting on a sofa with their feet up and a dog at the other end.
Photo: Rozette Rago
When you buy something online, sight unseen, you’re taking a leap of faith. This is especially true with sofas, which often cost hundreds or thousands of your hard-earned dollars and can be a hassle to return.

There are so many styles, types, and sizes of sofa—from buttoned-up Chesterfields to the Dalì-inspired Bocca—that “best” is often a matter of personal taste.

After years of research and testing, we’re ready to admit that we can’t tell you which sofa model is the absolute best. But we can walk you through the process and help you balance quality, budget, and space constraints with your unique needs and tastes.

How to use this guide
Sofas 101
We list everything you need to know about sofas, including the common styles, which is best for your lifestyle, and how to spot a quality sofa.

Shopping tips
We outline the most important things to consider when you’re buying a sofa—before, during, and after shopping. Plus, we include a helpful checklist.

Options to consider
Determining which sofa is the “best” is a subjective decision. Instead, we help you navigate companies to compare value, shopping experience, and customer service.

Sustainability
The “greenest” sofa is the one you’ll keep, but we share guidance on indoor air quality and sustainability, too.

Shopping online for a sofa—probably one of the bulkiest and most expensive pieces of furniture you’ll own—requires a huge amount of trust. We’re here to help you understand what to expect when you buy from a company, whether or not you can trust its claims, and what your options are if you end up hating your new sectional—so you can get a sofa you’ll love, with fewer headaches.

We highlight things to think about before you buy, whether online or in person, including the type and the style you want, what size will fit in your home, how to check for quality construction, how many people you want to seat, and what you should avoid (and invest in) based on your lifestyle. We also have a checklist to help you shop and for post-delivery, while the return window is still open.

Looking for something else?
An illustration of someone bending over with back pain in front of a sleeper sofa.
Upgrades to Make a Sleeper Sofa Worth Sleeping On
A blue fabric sofa between two end tables in a room setting.
How to Clean a Sofa

Sofa Buying Advice From the People Who Design and Make Them
Two people relaxing at the Better Homes and Gardens Clayton Court 5-Piece Patio Dining Set with a pitcher of lemon water between them.
The Best Patio Furniture (And How to Shop for It)
Read more from Home

The research
Why you should trust us
How we picked and tested
Things to consider before you order a sofa
Article: Modern style and comfort at a competitive price
BenchMade Modern: Highly customizable, meticulously constructed, with a lifetime warranty (and a higher price tag)
Burrow: Tailored, modular sofas that are better for smaller spaces
Sixpenny: “Like a literal cloud” for lounging, with a limited lifetime warranty
Floyd: Modular design and customization (with limits)
Sabai: A compact sofa made with recycling in mind
Other sofa brands
What to look forward to
What type of sofa should you get?
Pick the right sofa for your lifestyle
Choose a sofa style
Quality construction (and what to look for)
Why is so much furniture out of stock?
Should I worry about flame retardants?
Is my new sofa sustainable?
I picked out a sofa. Now what?
Sources
Sign up for our newsletter
Get Wirecutter’s independent reviews, expert advice, and intensively researched deals sent straight to your inbox.


For information about our privacy practices, including how to opt out of marketing emails, see our Privacy Policy. For general questions, contact us anytime.
Why you should trust us
Six sofas organized around a coffee table in a brightly sunlit room..
Some of the sofas at one of our offices. Photo: Jeremy Pavia
Gregory Han and Abigail Stone worked on this guide before staff writer Katie Okamoto adopted it in 2021. Gregory is a former industrial designer and current writer and editor who has been covering home design since 2006. As a designer, he learned the ins and outs of mass-market product design, from conception to manufacturing. Katie holds a master’s degree in architecture and a bachelor of arts in environmental studies. They were previously an editor at Metropolis Magazine and once worked at Knoll, a mid-century modern furniture company, where they frequently reviewed quality, design, manufacturing, and sustainability in furniture.

How we picked and tested
For this guide, we sought companies whose sofas hit the sweet spot of durability, comfort, price, and availability of styles. We wanted to find sofas that could be easily ordered online and returned. Though some of the companies we looked at have showrooms or brick-and-mortar stores, the bulk of this guide covers direct-to-consumer companies that sell online.

If this were a typical Wirecutter guide, we’d now highlight our picks for the “best” sofas you could buy online. But couches are a highly subjective category with hundreds of styles to choose from.

Why we don’t have sofa “picks”
Our approach here is similar to the one we’ve taken in our buying guide to refrigerators: We don’t have official “picks” for specific sofa models. Instead, we point you toward brands and companies that stood out in our research and testing for quality, value, online shopping experience, delivery experience, customer service, transparency, warranty, and other considerations. We still reference specific models we’ve tested, but our focus is on the brand or company. This way, when you buy a sofa, you will know as much as possible about what happens next.

To learn how quality sofas are made, we visited three furniture factories: Los Angeles–based BSC Furniture, which at the time was manufacturing BenchMade Modern’s line of upholstered seating (the companies have since parted ways); the facility for Modernica, a modernist furniture manufacturer, also based in Los Angeles; and the Mitchell Gold + Bob Williams factory in Taylorsville, North Carolina. In 2022, we spoke with Phantila Phataraprasit, co-founder of Sabai, about the company’s approach to designing for a sofa’s lifecycle. We spoke with Svenja Diekmann, head of design at Swedish furniture company Hem, at the company’s pop-up showroom during the LA Design Festival. And we chatted with salespeople on the floor of such retailers as IKEA, Crate & Barrel, and West Elm, and read thousands of online reviews and editorial recommendations listed online at HGTV, Architectural Digest, Curbed, Apartment Therapy, Houzz, and Elle Décor.

We don’t have official “picks” for specific sofa models. Instead, we point you toward brands and companies that stood out in our research and testing.

In our first round of testing, in 2016, we tested seven sofas from seven companies over several days. Each one was that company’s best-selling model at the time; we thought best-sellers would represent the designs that the companies had the most experience in manufacturing. Our testers varied in height, weight, and age (including some jumping children).

In 2021, we expanded our list to 17 popular companies selling direct-to-consumer sofas that offer customization, exchanges and returns, and upholstery samples. We perused their websites, visited showrooms, and compared fabric samples. In this round, we landed on testing sofas or upholstered armchairs from four additional companies—Burrow, Sixpenny, Floyd, and Sabai—and we revisited two of our previous picks, Article and BenchMade Modern. Our testers have lived with these models in their homes over several months, hosting parties, movie nights, and various pets.

Things to consider before you order a sofa
We’ve all heard the horror stories about someone who purchased the sofa of their dreams only to discover it would not fit through a doorway, navigate a stairway, or fit inside the room. Follow these steps to ensure that you don’t become a cautionary tale for future generations of sofa shoppers. (You should also read our overview of how to pick a sofa style and consult our decision-making checklist.)

A diagram illustrating proper measuring technique: width, height, arm height, and depth all need to be measured, as well as your entryways' width, height, and corners
Double-check the manufacturer’s listed measurements by taking your own, and carefully measure the path of delivery. Illustration: Sarah MacReading
Accurately measure the sofa
A sofa’s online product page should include measurements—at minimum the width, height, and depth of the sofa. You may also want to know its clearance from the floor, the width and height of the arm, and the depth and height of the seat cushions, all of which you can usually find by downloading a spec sheet or assembly manual, or by emailing the company.

At the risk of stating the obvious, if the sofa you’re interested in is from a company that has a showroom or brick-and-mortar retail location near you, check it out in person. Doing so will give you greater confidence, and you can take your own additional measurements (video)—don’t forget to bring a tape measure.

Check the delivery process
Some sofas ship fully assembled, some ship with detached legs and separate cushions, and others require more-extensive assembly. Note the sofa’s widest dimension. Some companies, like Floyd, include the dimensions of the boxes that the components will arrive in, so you can make sure they’ll fit around corners and through doors. You also can usually find out how a sofa ships—in sections that just need joining or completely disassembled—in the company FAQ or by emailing customer service. (And if you can’t find this out, it’s a good sign that you might want to consider a different company.)

Measure your entryways
Survey the easiest points of entry into your home, together with any obstacles that could complicate delivery. A steep stairway, a narrow corridor, a low overhanging fixture, or a small elevator can all present insurmountable challenges. We found Room & Board’s How to Prepare for Furniture Delivery video particularly insightful for visualizing unforeseen obstacles. Habitat UK’s six-step sofa-fit checklist is another excellent resource.

Test the footprint
Make sure your potential sofa will fit where you want it to go.

BenchMade Modern sends a free, true-to-size footprint of your sofa to roll out across the floor; if you’re considering another company, you can create your own using newspaper, cardboard, or paper taped together. Some retail companies, like IKEA and Wayfair, offer augmented-reality apps so you can visualize furniture in any space.

Article: Modern style and comfort at a competitive price
Two people engaged in conversation while sitting on an Article Ceni Sofa.
Photo: Jeremy Pavia
Shop here if: You have a smaller budget and want a good variety of styles and fabrics, from sleek, mid-century modern looks to classic leather sofas.

Average standard sofa price: $1,500 for a three-seater

What we liked: Article offers a range of sofa types—including loveseats, sectionals, and sleeper sofas—in modern and trendy styles. We’ve tested Article’s Ceni Sofa and the Sven Lounge Chair (an armchair version of the Sven Sofa). And we’ve found both to be comfortable and well constructed, with high-density foam cushions, webbing suspensions (which we discuss in this section), and solid walnut or oak bases. We found these sofas generous to sit in, and our testers thought they had a decent, albeit firm, “ride.” We’ve been testing the Sven Lounge Chair in velvet for a few years of daily use (it has quickly become a living room favorite). The green velvet has a sumptuous, mossy richness to it and is soft to the touch, and the seat cushion feels medium-firm. With a seat depth of 2 feet, the Sven can comfortably accommodate cross-legged and side-lounging positions. However, when our 5-foot-4 tester was seated “normally,” facing forward, it felt almost too deep; taller folks may find it to be just right.

The company’s seating comes in a range of sizes, including armchairs, loveseats, three-seaters, and sectionals, and it can usually be dispatched in a few days (Article clearly lists the shipping windows on each product page). The Ceni three-seater, with woven polyester fabric upholstery, normally sells for around $1,000. And the Sven three-seater sofa (88 inches wide) ranges from $1,300 to $1,900, depending on your choice of velvet, woven, or leather upholstery.

In our experience, Article’s email communications with orders and shipping are clear and accurate, and its customer service is responsive. We were impressed by the efficiency with which the Sven Lounge Chair was packed: The legs, which you screw on yourself (no tools required), came zipped into the underside of the chair. And the cushions all fit inside the seat volume, creating a 70-pound compact cube—23 (H) by 43 (W) by 48 (L) inches. Assembly for the Sven was minimal—you simply attach the screw-on legs and position the cushions. But check Article’s instructions for each item (available as a PDF on the product page) before you order.

Things we didn’t love: Among the many glowing Article reviews we saw, there were a fair number of negative ones, most of them pertaining to durability. Some users (including one Wirecutter staffer) report the cushioning in the Ceni Sofa sinking over the years and the fabric upholstery being prone to pilling.

Though the Sven Lounge Chair’s seat is medium-firm, we found that the soft back cushion sinks in, for a pillow-like feel, and requires frequent plumping. The seat cushion is tufted on one side, so you won’t be able to flip it or remove the cover to wear each side evenly, but you can flip the back cushion.

Though most of our staffers who own the Sven like it, one hated it: She reports that her velvet cushions have faded where the sun reaches them, and the cushions now sag.

A person's arm resting on the armrest of an Article Ceni Sofa.
A closeup view of one of the wood legs on Article's Ceni Sofa.
A closeup view of the back cushion of Article's Ceni Sofa.
The arms on Article’s Ceni Sofa. Photo: Jeremy Pavia

A person's arm resting on the armrest of an Article Ceni Sofa.

A closeup view of one of the wood legs on Article's Ceni Sofa.

A closeup view of the back cushion of Article's Ceni Sofa.
Swatches: You can get up to 10 free swatches through an online form; not every couch style comes in all fabrics or leathers, so check before ordering your swatches. Placing the order is slightly cumbersome, since you have to manually enter the upholstery information you’re interested in.

Return policy: Returns are accepted within 30 days for any reason (this incurs a $49 shipping fee, as long as you’re in the continental US), plus $50 if you don’t save the packaging. Exchanges are free with the original packaging.

Warranty: one year

Shipping & delivery: Shipping is free for orders over $999 and $49 for anything under that. Article also lists box dimensions and weight on each product page. At the start of the pandemic, Article introduced contactless delivery as its default option (to your front door). But you can have the sofa delivered to a designated room for $119 and assembled for an additional $80.

BenchMade Modern: Highly customizable, meticulously constructed, with a lifetime warranty (and a higher price tag)
A cream Benchmade Modern sofa in a bright loft space.
Photo: Benchmade
Shop here if: You’re seeking quality, lifetime guarantees, custom sofa sizes, and a mid-century modern or traditional aesthetic—and you are comfortable with the higher price tag.

Average standard sofa price: $3,500 for a three-seater

What we liked: Compared with other online offerings we tried, BenchMade Modern sofas are relatively expensive. But we think for the price you get better quality, including a lifetime guarantee for the frame.

The two models we tested—the unfortunately named Skinny Fat Sofa and the Loyd Chair—were meticulously constructed and good-looking, with a tailored, modern look. The frames are well built and made in the United States (in Dallas and Los Angeles, the factory we visited). They’re available in a variety of sizes, from loveseats to sectionals, and come in a great (and well-explained) range of upholstery fabrics. Our testers found the high-resilience foam cushioning on both the Skinny Fat Sofa and the Loyd Chair to be comfortable, if on the firmer side. (BenchMade Modern offers two cushion fills: a foam-and-fiber cushion, which is firmer, and a foam-and-trillium cushion, which is plusher but needs fluffing.)

The company will also customize the size of your sofa, which is handy if you have an odd-shaped living room. BenchMade Modern typically can make and deliver a sofa in 24 days, even if you need it in a special size; this is far less time than the eight to 12 weeks it takes most furniture companies to fulfill orders. The zipper flaps on the Skinny Fat’s cushions closed evenly, and the stitching was tight and even. And because the cushions are covered with the same fabric on both sides, this sofa was one of the only ones we tested that had cushions we could flip. Most of BenchMade Modern’s sofas ship fully assembled with detached legs. Some sectionals ship in two pieces and include connecting hardware to lock pieces together.

One of our testers has had a BenchMade Modern sofa for more than five years, and he periodically rotates the cushions and washes the slipcovers. He said the couch is still “really comfy,” but he has noticed in the past two years that the cushions have started to compress and lose their ability to bounce back. “It tends to make the seat cushion cover look a little ruffled and loose,” he said.

Of the companies we looked at, BenchMade Modern offers one of the best return policies and warranties—a 100-day trial period and a lifetime warranty for the frame and suspension. The company will send you a printout of your item’s footprint, so you can see whether the piece fits into your space and has adequate clearance to get through doorways and around corners. This is a small detail, but it’s one we found very helpful. We’ve read mostly positive user reviews about the company’s customer service and delivery.

A person resting their arm on the armrest of the Skinny Fat Sofa.
A closeup view of the back cushion of the Skinny Fat Sofa.
The arm on BenchMade Modern’s Skinny Fat Sofa. Photo: Jeremy Pavia

A person resting their arm on the armrest of the Skinny Fat Sofa.

A closeup view of the back cushion of the Skinny Fat Sofa.
Things we didn’t love: Since 2021, their front-door delivery has significantly increased: from $100 to $250. Also, to shop online with confidence, you need good imagery. Compared with the imagery of other companies we researched (such as that of Article and Sixpenny), BenchMade Modern’s is minimal, lacking lifestyle photos and photos with people. So it’s hard to get a sense of scale. Though we like the configuration tool (this lets you visualize different dimensions and see zoomed-in swatches) on each product page, these renderings don’t give us a sense of the product in real life.

Though the Loyd Chair we ordered was beautifully made, the angle of the seat back made it hard to sit upright and encouraged a more-reclined position—something we might have foreseen had we viewed models sitting in the chair. The company’s social media offers some snippets of real-life settings, but it can be hard to find your specific configuration.

Swatches: Free swatches are available in kits (all fabrics, all fabrics and leathers, or just the ones you want). It’s easy to scroll through technical information like rub count, content, and cleaning guidelines while perusing colors.

Return policy: Returns are free within 14 days. Within 100 days of delivery, you can return, no questions asked, minus a 10% fee.

Warranty: lifetime for frame and suspension, one-year warranty for cushions and fabrics

Shipping & delivery: It’s $250 for front door (threshold) delivery and $400 for white-glove delivery (which includes in-room delivery, assembly, and hauling away of debris). A delivery driver will call to schedule a specific date and time.

Burrow: Tailored, modular sofas that are better for smaller spaces
Two people conversing while sitting on a Burrow sectional.
Photo: Burrow
Shop here if: You want sleek, modular options that you can customize, as well as competitive prices (within the four sofa styles Burrow offers), and you need to maximize seating in a smaller space.

Average standard sofa price: $1,500 for a three-seater

What we liked: If you’re seeking a compact, low-maintenance sofa with a tailored look, and you’re willing to tackle a more involved assembly, Burrow is a great option, with sofas priced similarly to Article’s. All four sofa styles—the Nomad, Field, Range, and Union—have exposed legs and clean lines, giving them a mid-century modern look. Though not endlessly customizable, the modular design allows you to expand or contract the sofa over time, pick different arm styles or cushions, and even add optional side tables. You can also choose between wood or metal leg designs, and from among woven, velvet, and leather upholstery.

Almost any Burrow style would be good in a tight space, since the seat depths lean toward the shallow side (between 21 and 22 inches deep). In 2022, Burrow released their Union Collection, which has a 27-inch seat depth. The frames are made of hardwood, with bent plywood panels and polyester webbing, and the cushions combine medium-density foam, shredding fill, and fiber wadding. We’ve found that the cushions on the Range sectional we are testing continue to look neat and tidy and feel firm.

Although Burrow offers a limited range of “performance” fabrics (between three and five, depending on the line), the deep neutrals, navies, and greens are rich and saturated. And the tight-weave fabrics are sturdy, stain-resistant, and ideal for households with kids and pets, since they wipe clean. (Our tester hosted three dogs at once on the Range sectional, and it was no worse for wear.) The Nomad collection also comes in “performance” velvet and leather.

Things we didn’t love: There is a trade-off to the compact style of Burrow sofas. Compared with other sofas we’ve tested, Burrow sofas tend to have shorter seat heights (16 to 17 inches) and shallower seat depths (21 to 22 inches), which some people may find uncomfortable for lounging. Those who prefer a more upright position, or who are looking for a sofa for entertaining, may like these proportions. However, one 5-foot-4-inch tester, who sat in all the styles in the New York showroom (the company’s only one), found the backs to be too short (12 inches on the Range, 16 inches on the Nomad, 17 inches on the Field) for long-term support and comfort, saying they hit at the mid-back.

It is possible to assemble a Burrow sofa alone—especially since Burrow packs each seat section in its own box, making it easier for one person to carry the delivery inside. But we recommend having a helper. Our tester described the tool-free assembly (video) as being “mostly straightforward.” But she said it was a little fiddly and cumbersome with only one person, since you have to align pre-drilled holes before you can secure modules together with screw knobs. Our tester said she broke a sweat doing this by herself. The metal connectors that link the seat backs also feel a little wobbly. So far they’ve held up well, but we’ll see how they perform over time.

Another staff tester received his Burrow Nomad with a manufacturing error in one of the modules, but says that the customer service representative responded quickly to his email and he received his replacement piece the following week. One of our other testers, who’s had his Range sectional for about a year, says it still looks great, but sometimes the back creaks when people sit back in it—annoying, but not a dealbreaker for him.

Swatches: Swatches come in “swatch sets” by sofa style and fabric type (leather, fabric, velvet). The first two sets are free; after that, they cost $5.

Return policy: Free exchanges, or returns within 30 days. For returns, you’ll pay a 10% fee if you keep the original packaging, otherwise, you’ll pay 20%, capped at $250. The return process is more cumbersome than most we’ve reviewed, since you’ll be asked to email photos to show an item’s current condition and/or potential defects.

Warranty: one year

Shipping & delivery: Shipping to your door is free, but in-room delivery and white-glove (including assembly) delivery are not available. The pandemic has lengthened Burrow’s previously short (within a week) delivery windows. But the company provides detailed delivery windows by product and region, and it updates shipping estimates on product pages. You can also filter by “ready-to-ship,” should you need a sofa within a month. Expect one more box than the number of seats you ordered (the extra box contains legs and hardware).

Sixpenny: “Like a literal cloud” for lounging, with a limited lifetime warranty
An Sixpenny sofa with a coffee table and two lounge chairs in front of it.
Photo: Sixpenny
Shop here if: You love a cushy couch with a relaxed look, deep seats, and lots of color and fabric choices at a fair price. And you prefer cotton or leather fabrics or don’t need synthetic “performance” fabrics to withstand day-to-day messes.

Average standard sofa price: $3,000 for a three-seater

What we liked: Sixpenny sofas tend to be rumpled-chic takes on the Lawson style, and they come in nine versions, seven of which are available as modular sectionals that you can reconfigure. Three-seaters range from about $3,000 to about $5,000 (less expensive than BenchMade Modern but pricier than Article or Burrow). And for the price, you’re getting high-quality construction—hardwood frames with plywood corner reinforcement—and high levels of comfort, due to spring suspension and foam-core cushions with soft down or poly fill. Sixpenny received some of the highest praise from our tester, who declared the Aria Grande sectional to be “like a literal cloud.” With their pillowy back cushions and cotton slipcovers (they also have a recycled faux fur and leather), these sofas tend to have a slightly lived-in yet modern appearance, like an upgrade to a 1990s-era TV couch.

The slipcovers are machine-washable—though Sixpenny recommends dry cleaning—and you can order replacements, so it is possible to change your sofa’s look in the future. We think Sixpenny’s cotton canvas, linen, leather, and velvet fabrics—which are hand-dyed—are some of the most beautiful we’ve seen. And they come in a light and bright color palette, compared with fabrics from some other companies whose palettes often skew grayer, brasher, or darker. Certain colors are ready to ship; otherwise, made-to-order configurations will deliver in about 15 weeks. If you have a household with pets or kids, Sixpenny recommends opting for a tighter weave and heavier cotton. (Our tester hosted two dogs on the Aria Grande in Sundazed Coral cotton linen, and it has held up fine so far. We’ll keep an eye on how this particular fabric wears over time.)

The Aria Grande sectional arrived almost completely assembled—we just had to arrange the heavy seat cushions and pillows, and connect the sections (when aligned, they attach with alligator clips). You can wait to connect your sofa sections, in order to play around with the configuration; our tester left their sofa this way for weeks. If you want to expand the sofa in the future, you can order individual modules.

Things we didn’t love: Sixpenny sofas have some of the deepest seat depths we’ve seen—many of them more than 2 feet deep (deeper even than Article’s Sven). If you prefer a more upright sitting position, opt for one of the sofas with shallower seats, like the Gabriel or Elias (23 inches deep). One of our testers who preferred a more upright sofa said cushions helped to prop them forward (many of Sixpenny’s designs come with throw pillows included). The seat and back cushions have a high-density foam core with either poly fill or a blend of poly and down; this can make some of Sixpenny’s sofas feel like a cloud, but it also means they are not as supportive. And that pillowy comfort means the cushions require frequent plumping to look put together.

Sixpenny uses mainly cotton and linen fabrics (in a variety of weights and weaves); though they are beautiful and arguably better for the environment, they will never rival “performance” synthetic fabrics when it comes to stain resistance.  (Sixpenny also offers an easier-to-care-for recycled faux fur— which the company says can be easily machine-washed and spot cleaned—and leather options for some models.) The slipcovers are removable and washable, but it’s not a simple task you’ll want to have to do regularly. That said, the few stains we’ve seen so far on the Sundazed Coral cotton linen sofa we’ve been testing have been relatively easy to spot-clean. (Sixpenny provides in-depth recommendations for how to clean its fabrics).

Swatches: The first 12 swatches are free; each additional one costs $2. It’s easy to scroll through and select swatches, with fabric content and weight available at a glance.

Return policy: Returns are free within 30 days of delivery (you’ll be charged a 10% restocking fee if you don’t keep the original packaging). You can also exchange fabric slipcovers for free within 30 days.

Warranty: a limited lifetime warranty for the frame, springs, joints, legs, and hardware (does not apply to fabrics, cushioning, seams, tufting, stains, finishes, or any reclaimed wood materials).

Shipping & delivery: free “threshold delivery” to your door, or white-glove delivery (assembly in your room of choice) for $100

Floyd: Modular design and customization (with limits)
A person playing with their dog on The Floyd Sofa.
Photo: Floyd
Shop here if: You like a soft-modern look, a median price, and want some future flexibility—and you don’t mind limited upholstery options.

Average standard sofa price: $2,200 for a three-seater

What we liked: Floyd sells just three sofa styles, so it’s not the first place to go if you want to browse a lot of looks. But Floyd is a solid stop for those who want a modular sofa with modern styling, priced around $1,400 to $3,300 for three-seater sizes. The three styles are: The Sofa (which blends a wood frame with a plush, pillowy look), The Form Sectional (which is sleek and modern), and The Sink Down Sectional; each is available starting in a two-seater size up through sectional sizes. We haven’t tested The Sectional or The Sink Down yet, but we hope to do so in the future. We've been testing The Sofa (in its three-seater-with-chaise configuration) for more than three years, using it daily. And we’re confident about the frame’s construction, which blends steel with birch plywood and steel legs. Unlike many sofas, The Sofa has no suspension; the double-foam seat cushions simply rest on a thinly padded plywood base. This means that The Sofa lacks bounce, despite its cushy appearance. The Sectional uses a flat-spring suspension that should provide more springiness (again, we haven’t tested it yet).

The Sectional, which Floyd introduced in 2021, can be arranged in a variety of layouts, with each preassembled unit connecting (PDF) with clips. The Sofa’s configuration is less flexible—you won’t be able to turn a two-seater into a three-seater, for instance. But if you add the chaise module, you can swap it from side to side without tools. In our experience, this is simple to do, and overall we found The Sofa’s assembly to be straightforward, though easier with two people. For both sofa styles, you will need to access the PDF instructions on Floyd’s website. In 2023 Floyd released their newest and deepest sofa, The Sink Down, which rivals Six Penny in seat depth (34 inches deep).

We like Floyd for its quality, pricing, shipping and delivery communication, ease of ordering, and materials transparency, as well as the options its design affords for future expansion. We also appreciate the assembly videos and imagery available on its site, so shoppers can get a sense of the product in an actual space and in proportion to people.

Things we didn’t love: The Sofa model has highly stuffed, foam-filled seat cushions. Combined with the lack of spring or webbing suspension, they made the sofa feel less comfortable than others we’ve tested. The plump-but-firm cushions send our bums toward the “valley” between them—making it hard to squeeze a fourth person onto the three-seater, since not everyone will get a level seat. Our 5-foot-4-inch tester said they find The Sofa to be most comfy when they are stretched out and using the back and arm cushions as a head pillow. The back cushions on The Sofa require frequent flipping and plumping (like some Article and Sixpenny sofas), and since they’re quite squishy, we find ourselves wishing the seats were deeper. We haven’t tested The Sectional, but we think the spring suspension and flatter cushion design might be more comfortable over time.

There are limited options for customizing both The Sectional and The Sofa. The Sectional offers five color options for its soft, canvas-like fabric (made of 100% polyester): an off-white and four dark, cool tones. The Sofa comes in six colors and three base finishes (made of 95% polyester and 5% nylon), so you have to like what you see. Though the company claims the fabric can stand up to smells and stains, thanks to a tight weave, it isn’t totally stain-proof. And you shouldn’t machine-wash or remove the cushion covers (the covers have zippers for manufacturing purposes, but in its FAQ, Floyd advises against removing them). In our experience, small spills wipe off with a damp cloth. Finally, Floyd used to offer a 10-year warranty; starting in 2021, that was reduced to a one-year warranty, which is not so different from most sofa companies, but makes it less compelling than it once was.

Swatches: free

Return policy: Returns, minus original shipping fees, are accepted in the original packaging within 30 days of delivery via a returns form on Floyd’s website. Return shipping is prepaid but 10% of the item cost is tacked on as a restocking fee.

Warranty: three-year warranty for cushions, panels, and sectional units; 1-year warranty for steel and birch frame

Shipping & delivery: 12% of the order value (capped at $350). Floyd tells you the number of boxes and their dimensions and weight before you order. For an extra fee, you can have the sofa delivered to a specific room, but assembly is not available. Updates on shipping-time estimates and delivery are usually accurate.

Sabai: A compact sofa made with recycling in mind
Sabai's The Essential Sectional in a well-lit room.
Photo: Sabai
Shop here if: You prize a couch that’s affordable, recyclable, and replaceable, or you need a sofa with a smaller footprint.

Average standard sofa price: $1,400 for a three-seater

What we liked: Founded in 2019, Sabai is still a relative newcomer, yet it has already redesigned its sofa with an eye toward end-of-life disassembly and recycling, removing glues, unnecessary plastic, and redundant materials. The frame uses FSC-certified wood and domestically sourced maple and jute webbing suspension, and it is assembled in North Carolina. Seat cushions are made from high-resiliency foam, and pillows use 100% recycled fiber fill. At time of writing, Sabai offers a limited selection of stain-resistant, spot-cleanable saturated colors in two fabrics (five colors each), made with Global Recycle Standard–certified recycled synthetic fibers (a polyester weave and a velvet); the company says it’s exploring natural fiber options. Our outside tester, a dog-owning friend of one of this guide’s authors, has had the three-seater in indigo velvet for two years. And she reports that its cushions look plump, unfaded, and virtually like new, even without washing the upholstery or flipping the cushions (but with regular vacuuming). She also said assembly was easy and that the components were light enough for her to handle alone.

We haven’t had the chance to order and assemble a Sabai sofa “in house” yet—and we’ll update this guide once we do. But based on thorough in-person inspections, extensive research, and user feedback from a tester who owns one, we think a Sabai sofa is worth considering if you’re looking for an affordable, compact model with replaceable parts, including slipcovers. This company basically offers only one style—though it’s available in multiple configurations and sizes, from armchair to loveseat to three-seater and corner sectionals. So you’ll also have to like that one look.

Sabai sells replacement slipcovers, cushions, pillow inserts, legs, and seating arms. The company also recently launched a buy-back, second-hand program.

Things we didn’t love: This sofa has a lower frame, with a 17½-inch seat height and a 14½-inch seat back. The tester, who is 5-foot-3, noted that the sofa was relatively comfortable, but she said she wished the back were higher or the seat depth were greater, to accommodate seated lounging. “I read on it a lot, but sideways,” she said. She also noted that the lighter weight made the sofa easy to dismantle and reassemble. But it also means the piece shifts easily.

Swatches: free

Return policy: Sofas can be returned for a refund within 30 days of delivery, minus original shipping fees, plus a $50 return fee.

Warranty: one year

Shipping & delivery: Depending on sofa size, shipping ranges from $65 to $175 for new loveseats and sofas within the continental United States. The number of boxes and their dimensions and weights are clearly noted in the company’s FAQ. Sofas are made to order and typically ship within a month.

Other sofa brands
IKEA: Simple, very cheap, but less durable
Two people sitting with their dog on the IKEA Kivik sofa.
Photo: Jeremy Pavia
Shop here if: You’re in a hurry to purchase a couch and money is the biggest factor in your decision.

When you’re on a tight budget and an even tighter timeline, we think your best bet is to head to IKEA (you can also order IKEA’s sofas on its website). Though we love IKEA’s simple Scandinavian styling, its couches are neither well constructed nor particularly comfortable. However, IKEA is an option to consider for its affordability, availability, and the yearlong return policy for unused merchandise. If there’s an IKEA in your area, you can test out sofas in person. And because of the heavy showroom traffic, this should give you a good indication of how cushioning will fare over time.

IKEA sells a range of sofas and sectionals. We’ve tested the Kivik, which has a simple, classic design. Though its price—starting at about $750—is almost impossible to beat, in this case you get what you pay for. These sofas aren’t the most comfortable we tested, but personal preference does play a role. Two Wirecutter staffers, who have owned Kiviks for 10 and eight years, respectively, both say they have liked this sofa.

In our own initial testing, after only a few hours of use, the Kivik sofa looked disheveled and off-kilter. The staff member who’s owned a Kivik for almost a decade, through four moves, said that a structural joint in the sofa’s frame broke after only about three years of heavy use. Still, the couch remains functional, even though it creaks when someone is sitting on it. The staffer who owned the sleeper version of the Kivik for eight years said they used it in the guest room or office: “It moved with us four times and was still in excellent condition when we sold it in 2020.” Our other tester, who has had the sofa for 8 years (across two moves) keeps it in her kids’ basement playroom and reports that it has held up well despite running the slipcovers through the washing machine many times.

Interior Define: Customizable and attractive, but no longer trustworthy as a brand
Shop here if: Actually, don’t.

Interior Define’s Sloan sofa was a strong contender as a pick in our first round of testing for an earlier version of this guide, and the company’s sofas are comfortable and well constructed. Interior Define stood out in part because of its sheer range of highly customizable contemporary-modern styles and sizes, including sleepers and storage sofas, from sprawling to compact.

However, in 2022 and early 2023, a series of customer complaints and industry reports prompted us to warn against the brand. People were not receiving couches they’d paid for, the company was failing to respond to phone calls and emails, and finally, in the first week of 2023, Business of Home reported, the company announced it would be dissolved. (The brand, for their part, released a cryptic Instagram post, saying, “Over the next few weeks we will be pausing all social media posting to focus on our customers and community.”) According to a story in Architectural Digest, the online design platform Havenly will be purchasing Interior Define’s intellectual property and replacing the staff, but maintaining the brand’s existing studios and honoring their backorders. We will update this guide as we learn more about the leadership change, but for now, we advise against buying from Interior Define.

Joybird: Comfort and variety, irregular customer service
Shop here if: You want to be able to choose from a wide range of vintage-inspired styles.

We initially recommended Joybird in 2016 because of the furniture’s quality, comfort, and pricing, as well as the variety of modern-to-retro styles the brand offers. If you bought a Joybird sofa and are happy with it, your experience has been much like that of our testers. But we stopped recommending the company’s products in 2017, after a number of readers reported negative experiences with Joybird’s customer service, long delivery times, and even manufacturing defects. We had hoped the company would solve these problems after its acquisition by La-Z-Boy in July 2018, but we’ve found that these same issues continue today. A number of customer reviews from 2019 through 2022 cite issues with manufacturing defects, unresponsive customer service, and poor communication. We will continue to monitor changes to see if this improves.

What to look forward to
After more than a year of testing Inside Weather's Modular Bondi 2-Seater Sofa, we will be adding Inside Weather as a new brand recommendation. While it's still a relatively new company, our testing and research has left us optimistic. We will be adding more details soon.

What type of sofa should you get?
Sofas and couches come in many shapes and sizes. The right one for you will depend on how much space you have, how many people you want to seat, and whether you plan to use the sofa for napping or hosting overnight guests. These are the four types you’ll generally find:

Standard sofa or couch: These generally measure between 72 and 84 inches long, comfortably seating three to four people.
Loveseat: This is similar to a sofa, but a loveseat is intended for two people; they range from 48 to 72 inches long.
Sectional: A sectional is a larger modular sofa consisting of two or more pieces arranged in an L- or a U-shaped configuration. Apartment-size sectionals are about the same size as a standard sofa, but larger sizes can seat five or more people.
Sofa bed or daybed: A sofa bed transforms to a flat surface, with a mattress or mattress-like surface to rest on. A daybed is essentially a sofa with more depth, and it’s intended for lounging comfortably stretched across its length.
The design industry tends to favor the term sofa instead of couch, but in everyday use there’s no difference. Both describe a cushioned piece of furniture with a back that’s intended to seat more than one person.

Pick the right sofa for your lifestyle
Give some thought to your personal seating needs. To help determine what best serves your lifestyle, think through the following questions.

How will you use the sofa?
Be honest with yourself about how you’ll sit on the sofa. In retail stores, we’ve seen shoppers sitting like they’re upright mannequins, which is likely not the way they would sit or lie on them at home. If you tend to slouch, a daybed or sectional with a chaise will prove more comfortable and won’t disfigure cushions (over time, slouching presses the front of seat cushions outward). If you’re a couch napper, avoid sofas with multiple seat cushions, because they’re prone to buckling and dipping. If you prefer to sit upright while reading, knitting, or using a mobile device, the more tailored, firmer structure of a mid-century-modern–style sofa or one with an upright back will feel more comfortable.

How many people will sit on the sofa?
Consider how many people will regularly sit on the sofa, as well as how they prefer to sit. Larger families or households that regularly host guests may be drawn to a sectional. But two smaller sofas, or a pair of loveseats, can offer the same amount of seating, or more, while being more flexible.

Who will use this sofa, and what are their needs?
If you have specific physical seating needs or preferences, such as a high seat height, firmer cushions, or more back support, you are probably already shopping with those specs in mind. But if you frequently host people with physical needs that are different than yours—such as a family member with arthritis or a friend who uses a wheelchair, or you’re dating a super-tall member of the WNBA—you may want to take their comfort into account, too. Some accessibility rules of thumb—a short seat height can be taxing on arthritic knees, and a shallow seat depth can be uncomfortable for people of above-average height—can help. But when in doubt, ask.

Do you have kids or pets, or host wild parties?
Never underestimate a dog’s, cat’s, child’s, or party guest’s ability to destroy your furniture. Microfiber and leather upholstered sofas are the easiest to clean and maintain. And because both are smoother, they’re less likely to be scratched into remnants by a pet’s claws. Otherwise, stick with upholstery fabrics with high stain protection and a higher rub count. (Room & Board has a great guide to pet- and family-friendly fabrics.) For an added layer of protection, you may also want to consider a sofa with a slipcover or upholstery that you can remove and launder. Unattached seat and back cushions will be easier to clean.

If your kids jump on the sofa, stick with a frame that has sinuous springs or poly-webbing supports, rather than one with more-delicate hand-tied springs. For families with young kids, avoid down-filled cushions, because little feet will likely deform the malleable filling every day. It’s also a good idea to avoid decorative detailing, like tufting buttons or frilly trim; for some kids, pulling and picking at these will prove irresistible.

Do your floors scratch easily?
If you have delicate wood floors, carefully consider the legs of your sofa. From experience, we know that hairpin legs can scrape wood floors. As a last resort, a well-placed area rug can keep sofa feet from damaging a floor.

Choose a sofa style
A visual diagram of eight different types of sofas where each type has a unique aesthetic.
Illustration: Sarah MacReading
Regardless of how well a sofa is made, you won’t be happy with it if you don’t also love the way it looks. Narrow your search to the styles that appeal to you and that will complement your home. Below are the eight most common styles sold today.

Mid-century modern: The mid-century aesthetic is represented in pieces with a clean and minimalist design; these structures tend to sit low to the floor and have unadorned metal or wooden legs.

Lawson: The “comfy jeans” of sofas—the laidback Lawson style is practically synonymous with what we think of as the quintessential couch, where spare change gets discovered.

English roll arm: The cushioned yet firm high-back sofa is distinguished by its low contoured arms leaning outward. This style looks best in traditional and transitional decorated spaces that have enough room not to cramp its size.

Chaise: Imagine the seat of an upholstered chair stretched out, and you have the chaise. Traditionally this sofa features one side with an arm and the other side without (aka a méridienne sofa or fainting couch), but many chaise designs forgo arms altogether.

Settee: This is a small upright sofa that’s distinguished by its seating for two, and settee is the original name for the loveseat. Styles can range from traditional to contemporary. Because of its petite proportions, the settee works well in smaller apartments, in a pair facing each other, or placed within unexpected spaces like bedrooms, offices, or even hallways.

Tuxedo: This style is distinguished by boxy dimensions, tufting along the back and arms, and arms of equal height to the back.

Chesterfield: Identified by its quilted or tufted low back and its high arms, this British design is classically upholstered in leather.

Camelback: The aristocratic profile of the camelback (also called a humpback sofa) is unsurprisingly attributed to the hump at the center of the backrest. Sometimes there are two humps, and the sofa usually sits atop four to eight exposed wood legs.

Quality construction (and what to look for)
After a mattress, a sofa is likely the most-used piece of furniture in a home. The quality of the frame, supports, cushions, and upholstery will affect how long a sofa lasts; this is something we elaborate on in our companion piece, Sofa Buying Advice From the People Who Design and Make Them. In brief, this is what to look for.

The underside of a sofa displaying its frame and springs.
The quality of the frame, supports (like the sinuous springs shown here), cushions, and upholstery will all play a part in how long a sofa lasts. Photo: Jeremy Pavia
Frame
Most frames are made of some kind of engineered wood. But our experts advised avoiding MDF and particleboard, which do not hold staples, glue, or nails well over time. Instead, look for sofas with frames made of furniture-grade plywood, engineered hardwood, or solid wood. The most durable sofas have frames made with traditional mortise and tenon joints, which require fewer staples and less glue to hold the frame together, but reinforced corners can also add durability. When you’re testing out a sofa, remember that any swaying is a sign that the frame isn’t strong.

Suspensions
More than cushioning, the suspension in a sofa is what makes it comfortable. Quality sofas are often made with sinuous springs (S-shaped springs stretched across the skeleton of the wood frame), which give the most bounce and the most motion transfer. Some sofas are supported by fabric poly-webbing, which can be even more durable than sinuous springs, depending on the quality. Very high-end sofas are made with eight-way hand-tied springs, which can do a better job of warding off sagging and squeaking. When testing out a sofa, listen for (and avoid) squeaks or creaks.

Cushioning
Beyond style, cushions are the most subjective element when you’re picking out a sofa. Some people will want slouch-friendly cushions they can sink into, and others will want more-structured support. Generally, you’ll find four cushion options:

Poly-wrapped foam: Made of high-resiliency foam wrapped in polyester, this cushion style is the most commonly found. You won’t need to fluff the cushions, and the foam generally provides good support.
Down: These cushions are filled either with 100% down (plush) or a down blend encasing a foam core (slightly firmer), with a layer of down-proof ticking. This is the most luxurious cushion style. But just like a down bed pillow, it requires regular fluffing.
Innerspring core: Similar to a mattress, this cushion style has individually pocketed coils wrapped in a layer of foam. The cushions have more bounce than other styles.
Memory foam: You’ll find memory-foam cushions primarily on sleeper sofas. The high density of memory foam ensures durability, but not everyone will like its form-fitting properties.
Upholstery quality
Retailers offer a wide range of upholstery fabrics at different prices. The cheapest fabrics are generally more susceptible to stretching and staining. Upholstery fabrics sometimes share a rub-count rating, which indicates their longevity. A measure of a fabric’s durability, rub count is tested by a machine (video) that rubs back and forth over the fabric until the material wears down. Consider 50,000 count as standard, 80,000 as premium, and 100,000 as high-performance. Residential rub counts above 25,000 are usually considered fine. But if you have a large family or pets, we’d recommend leaning toward 50,000 because the amount of friction across the fabric surface will add up. Beyond this, you may also encounter fabric claiming to be “water-repellant” or “stain-resistant.” Though some fabrics may be treated with chemical coatings for those qualities, in residential settings, they’re not always necessary. Tighter weaves tend to be more water-repellant and less prone to snags than looser weaves.

Several fabric swatches from Joybird and BenchMade Modern scattered on the floor.
You can always order fabric samples from companies, such as these from Joybird (left) and BenchMade Modern (right). Pro tip: Once you’ve pinpointed your favorites, ask for larger samples to more closely scrutinize. Photo: Michael Hession
Requesting samples is a good way to understand the quality and characteristics of the fabric you’re buying. You may be able to request samples that are larger than the usual swatch, so you can see what they look like under sunlight and illuminated by interior lights. Rub the sample against your neck, arms, and back to determine whether it will truly be comfortable for long periods, like when you’re napping.

As you browse, you’ll encounter a host of sustainability and performance claims and certifications related to upholstery. We’ve listed some in our sustainability section.

Why is so much furniture out of stock?
It’s worth double-checking expected lead times before you place an order, so you know what to expect. Also, review warranties and return policies. Companies that source and manufacture within the United States, or that have streamlined their supply chains to rely mostly on local sources and factories, typically have shorter lead times. But this is not a hard-and-fast rule, and the COVID-19 pandemic has laid bare just how tenuous global supply chains can be.

Because of global events, you may notice longer lead times between placing an order and delivery—in some cases, months. You may also notice that certain models, finishes, or colors are out of stock. Generally, this may be because of issues with international suppliers (wood that is harvested in Europe or Asia, for example) or international manufacturing (subscription required). But it may also be due to issues with domestic suppliers, as in the case of foam. The production, shipment, and delivery of products may be impacted by pandemic protocols, labor shortages, shipping container shortages, and rising shipping costs (subscription required) that are outside the company’s control. The products may be held up in shipping ports for weeks or months, which can sometimes impact the state a product is in when it arrives at your door.

Should I worry about flame retardants?
There is evidence that flame retardants are bad for the human immune system, reproduction, endocrine system, and neurologic function, and may be linked to cancer. Luckily, most sofas no longer use them. Manufacturers used to add these compounds to foam-filled furniture, because the substances supposedly slowed the spread of fire (hence the name). But later, scientists demonstrated that the compounds didn’t actually work as described. Add to that the emerging picture of how flame retardants can affect our health, and it’s no surprise that manufacturers—including IKEA (PDF)—have mostly retired them from their couches. You can see whether flame retardants are present in your sofa by checking the California labeling standard, TB 117-2013 (PDF). California passed a labeling law in September 2014, and companies are largely complying to meet the California market.

To conform to TB 117-2013, each piece of upholstered furniture must include the following lines, with one of the lines marked with an X:

The upholstery materials in this product:

_X_ contain added flame retardant chemicals

_X_ contain NO added flame retardant chemicals

Most of the couches we tested do contain polyurethane foams. Even though those foams don’t contain flame retardants, they still release gasses and, often, related odors for the first couple of days, but these should dissipate soon. For more about off-gassing, see our article discussing what’s coming out of your foam mattress—since it’s also coming out of your couch.

Is my new sofa sustainable?
At a minimum, all companies that sell furniture in the United States must follow domestic and international regulations that limit certain harmful chemical content, such as formaldehyde levels in wood, foams, and textiles. (You can read more about such requirements in our section on flame retardants.) Increasingly, companies are including sustainability claims, materials disclosures, and third-party certifications in their marketing materials.

Claims like “natural,” “upcycled,” “sustainable,” “locally sourced,” and “climate pledge” may be meaningless, since they are not always regulated or verified by an independent party. And even if a company does include third-party certifications, like Oeko-Tex fabrics or Greenguard Gold, their product is not necessarily healthier for you and the planet than some others. It simply means the company could afford to pay for the certification process and thought doing so was worthwhile. Still, the presence of these certifications may give you peace of mind that the company’s claims have backup.

The EPA estimates that more than 9 million tons of furniture ends up in landfills every year. Some companies are introducing buy-back or trade-in programs, or redesigning their furniture so it can be disassembled and its components repurposed. But no matter how smartly designed or “sustainably” certified a sofa is, the lowest-impact sofa will be the one that you like enough—and that lasts long enough—to keep using for years.

Here are some (verifiable) terms you may encounter while shopping:

Forest Stewardship Council (FSC): FSC is a voluntary certification verifying that the wood used in a product is sourced from international forests that are managed in a socially and ecologically responsible way.

Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI): This is a voluntary standard verifying that wood-based products are sourced from forests that are managed in an ecologically responsible way.

Global Recycled Standard (GRS): GRS is a voluntary standard, owned by the nonprofit Textile Exchange, that verifies the environmental and social practices along a supply chain for products that have a minimum of 20% recycled material.

Responsible Down Standard (RDS): This voluntary certification for down verifies that 100% of the product’s down content was sourced according to certain minimal requirements for humane treatment, including no live plucking or force feeding (for more information, read our post on ethical down).

CertiPUR-US: This voluntary standard, owned by the nonprofit Alliance for Flexible Polyurethane Foam, certifies the foam does not contain heavy metals, formaldehyde, known ozone depleters, or certain phthalates and flame retardants, and that it has less than 0.5 ppm VOC emissions (which impact indoor air quality and human health).

Greenguard: This voluntary certification system scientifically verifies that products contain very low levels of harmful chemicals, including VOCs (volatile organic compounds), that impact indoor air quality and human health.

Oeko-Tex: This is a voluntary certification system for harmful chemicals in textiles.

Declare: This product-labeling system, owned by the International Living Future Institute, verifies that a company has voluntarily disclosed all product content, and it certifies the absence of Living Building Challenge Red List chemicals that have been found to be harmful to human health.

I picked out a sofa. Now what?
Examining your prospective sofa in person is the best way to get a feel for it and avoid the hassle of a bulky return. If you are unable to do this, however, and you understand the company’s return and exchange policies, do a thorough inspection when your new sofa arrives.

☐ Is it comfortable to sit or lie on?

Test any sofa without extra pillows; they may hide back-cushioning issues. Sit or lounge how you normally would, and note how it feels over time. If you feel achy after only a few minutes, consider a different style or size.

☐ Is it easy to get out of?

If you find the couch uncomfortable to get up from, you might want to try a higher seat level and firmer cushions, and avoid very sinky materials like down or memory foam.

☐ Is it the right height?

Your feet should rest comfortably flat on the floor while you are in a seated position. You may need to negotiate between different-size people in your household. But generally, people who are shorter than 5-foot-3 may prefer an inside seat depth of 19 to 21 inches—measured from the edge of the front of the seat to the front of the back cushion (video). Those who are taller than 6 feet, as well as people who lie down regularly, may prefer a wider seating depth.

☐ Is it still comfortable with two or three people?

Note any valleys between cushions, which can make squeezing in multiple people uncomfortable. Also note any motion transfer, which tends to be most prevalent in sofas with spring suspensions.

☐ Does the frame feel sturdy?

The sofa shouldn’t squeak or creak when you sit on it. Use this test: Lift the front corner or leg of the sofa about 6 inches off the floor. The other front leg should eventually lift with it. If the opposing corner remains touching the floor, the frame is flexing too much. Note whether the frame bows in the center when two or more people sit on it; if it does, this likely means the frame should be reinforced, something that is particularly important for extra-long sofas.

☐ Are the details neat and matching?

If you have to assemble your sofa, make sure all connection hardware—like alligator clips, bolts, and screws—are in good condition before assembling. Inspect stitching and piping sewn across cushions, to check whether they align consistently. Check legs for color or wood stain/grain mismatches.

☐ What do the best and worst online reviews say?

Although we do our best to capture user feedback, it’s helpful to also get a sense of what people love or hate about the sofa, especially over time. Regardless of whether it seems relevant to your situation, this information can provide some valuable insights.

☐ What does the sofa look like in photos on resale sites?

Even if you’re not shopping second-hand, sites like Craigslist, OfferUp, and others can help you see how older versions of your potential sofa have fared. Search for the same manufacturer or model, note advertised age, and check for patterns of places that wear has occurred over time. As a friend put it, “You could see into your future.”

This article was edited by Daniela Gorny and Christine Ryan.

Sources
Phantila Phataraprasit, co-founder at Sabai, phone interview, January 12, 2022
Jay Novak, co-founder at Modernica, in-person interview, May 30, 2018
Joshua Siegel, owner at BSC Furniture, in-person interview, June 5, 2018
Megan Torres, general manager at BenchMade Modern, in-person interview, June 5, 2018
Svenja Diekmann, lead designer at Hem, in-person interview, June 7, 2018
Brad Sewell, founder at Campaign, email interview, July 11, 2018
Natalie Quinn, upholstery merchandise manager at Room & Board, email interview, August 14, 2018
Meet your guides

Katie Okamoto

Katie Okamoto is the lead editor of sustainability at Wirecutter. She’s been studying, working in, and writing about the complexities of sustainability since 2005. Among other things, she’s been an editor at Metropolis, where she focused on the intersection of environment and design; a manager at the NYC Department of Environmental Protection; a designer; and a freelance writer. She holds a bachelor’s degree in environmental studies, as well as a master’s in architecture, and has covered the overlaps between sustainability and other topics for publications including The Atlantic, Newsweek, and Catapult.


Gregory Han

Gregory Han is a design, travel, and lifestyle writer, and the co-author of Creative Spaces: People, Homes, and Studios to Inspire. His work can be found at Design Milk, Dwell, Domino, Apartment Therapy, and Airbnb.

writer abigail stone
Abigail Stone

Further reading
An illustration of someone bending over with back pain in front of a sleeper sofa.
Upgrades to Make a Sleeper Sofa Worth Sleeping On
Sleeping on a sofa bed doesn’t have to be a nightmare.

A blue fabric sofa between two end tables in a room setting.
How to Clean a Sofa
To keep your couch looking fresh, vacuum it regularly, and be prepared to clean up messes quickly.


Sofa Buying Advice From the People Who Design and Make Them
We visited three furniture factories to learn what makes a great sofa. Here are the tips you need to know from furniture designers and manufacturers.

Two people relaxing at the Better Homes and Gardens Clayton Court 5-Piece Patio Dining Set with a pitcher of lemon water between them.
The Best Patio Furniture (And How to Shop for It)
We spent 50 hours researching what makes good patio furniture. To find the ideal dining sets and outdoor lounge furniture for your backyard, we tested dozens.

Sign up for our newsletter
Get Wirecutter’s independent reviews, expert advice, and intensively researched deals sent straight to your inbox.

Sign Up
For information about our privacy practices, including how to opt out of marketing emails, see our Privacy Policy. For general questions, contact us anytime.


Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time). Subscribe now for unlimited access.

About Wirecutter
Our team
Staff demographics
Jobs at Wirecutter
Contact us
How to pitch
Deals
Lists
Blog
Newsletters
Make a Plan: Moving
© 2023 Wirecutter, Inc., A New York Times Company
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
Partnerships & Advertising
Licensing & Reprints
RSS
Dismiss